Gordon Bell:(born 1931) – computer designer Digital Equipment Corporation|DEC VAX, author: ''Computer Structures''
Barry Boehm:– software engineering economics, spiral development
David Liddle:
Haskell Curry:
Daniel :– qmail, software as protected speech
Neeraj Kayal:- AKS primality test
Rudolf Bayer:– B-tree
Frances E. Allen:– compiler optimization
Richard Veryard:– enterprise modeling
David Gelernter:
Simon Colton:– computational creativity
Brian Cantwell Smith:– reflection (computer science), 3lisp
Randy Pausch:(1960–2008) – Human-Computer interaction, Carnegie professor, "Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams|Last Lecture"
Zhou Chaochen:– duration calculus
Daphne Koller:– Artificial intelligence, bayesian network
Seymour Cray:– Cray Research, supercomputer
Andrew Barto:
Shimon Even:
Richard Hamming:– Hamming code, founder of the Association for Computing Machinery
Jack Dongarra:– linear algebra high performance computing (HCI)
Gordon Moore:– Moore's law
Joyce K. Reynolds:– Internet
Gastón Gonnet:- Co-founder of Waterloo Maple Inc.
G.M. Nijssen:– NIAM
Trygve Reenskaug:- Model-view-controller (MVC) software architecture pattern
Beatrice Helen Worsley:- wrote the first PhD dissertation involving modern computers, was one of the people who wrote Transcode
David J. Brown:– Unified Memory Architecture|unified memory architecture, binary compatibility
Watts Humphrey:(1927–2010) – Personal Software Process (PSP), Software quality, Team Software Process (TSP)
Tim Finin:
Niklaus Wirth:– Pascal (programming language)|Pascal, Modula, Oberon (programming language)
Steven Spewak:– Enterprise architecture planning
Ada Lovelace:– first programmer
Martin Richards :- BCPL
Corrado Bohm:- author of the structured program theorem
John McCarthy :– Lisp (programming language), artificial intelligence
Ian Goldberg:– cryptographer, off-the-record messaging
Jennifer Widom:– nontraditional data management
Terry Winograd:– artificial intelligence, SHRDLU
Paritosh Pandya:
Konrad Zuse:– German pioneer of hardware and software
Christopher J. Date:– proponent of database relational model
Herbert A. Simon:– artificial intelligence
Oded Goldreich:– cryptography, computational complexity theory
Sjaak Brinkkemper:– methodology of product software development
Per Brinch Hansen:(surname "Brinch Hansen") – concurrency
Vladimir Vapnik:-- pattern recognition, computational learning theory
Annie Easley|Annie J. Easley:
James D. Foley:
Robert Tappan Morris:– Morris worm
David Parnas:– information hiding, modular programming
Yorick Wilks:– computational linguistics, artificial intelligence
robotics:
Moti Yung:
Butler W. Lampson:
Andrey Ershov:
Grady Booch:– Unified Modeling Language, Object Management Group
Gernot Heiser:– Development of L4 microkernel family|L4 and founder of OK Labs
David A. Patterson :
Kurt Bollacker:
Mathai Joseph:
Jeffrey D. Ullman:– compilers, databases, complexity theory
George Boole:– Boolean logic
Susan Dumais:– Information Retrieval
Maurice Vincent Wilkes:– microprogramming, EDSAC
Franklin H. Westervelt:– use of computers in engineering education, conversational use of computers, Michigan Terminal System|MTS, ARPANET, distance learning
Ryan Dahl:- founder of node.js project
John Hopcroft:– compilers
Douglas Engelbart:– tiled window (computing)|windows, hypertext, computer mouse
Linus Torvalds:– Linux kernel, Git (software)|Git
Tom Lane :
Alonzo Church:– mathematics of combinators, lambda calculus
Zohar Manna:– fuzzy logic
Sergey Brin:- co-founder of Google
W. Richard Stevens:(1951&ndash;1999){{spaced ndash}} author of books, including ''TCP/IP Illustrated'' and ''Advanced Programming in the Unix Environment''
Dennis E. Wisnosky:– Integrated Computer-Aided Manufacturing (ICAM), IDEF
Joseph Kruskal:– Kruskal's algorithm
Steve Omohundro:
Anthony James Barr:– SAS System
Joel Moses:– Macsyma
Michael O. Rabin:– nondeterministic machines
Anita Borg:(1949-2003) - American computer scientist, founder of Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology
Christos Papadimitriou:
Dragomir R. Radev:– Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval
Tom Maibaum:
Juan Pavón:– software agents
Steve Whittaker:– Human Computer Interaction, Computer Support for Cooperative Work, Social Media
Alex Helwani:– Development of computational molecular biology cancer detection systems<ref>{{cite web|last=Parkinson|first=David|title=Considerations in the development of circulating tumor cell technology for clinical use|url=http://www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/1479-5876-10-138.pdf|work=Journal of Translational Medicine|accessdate=9 December 2013}}</ref>
Gordon Plotkin:
Edward F. Moore:– Moore machine
T. V. Raman:– accessibility, Emacspeak, etc.
Jean E. Sammet:– programming languages
Lance Fortnow:
Gene Amdahl:– supercomputer developer, founder of Amdahl Corporation
Bill Joy:(born 1954) – Sun Microsystems, Berkeley Software Distribution|BSD UNIX, vi, C shell|csh
Gerard Holzmann:– software verification, logic model checking (SPIN model checker|SPIN)
Maciej Stachowiak:– GNOME, Safari (web browser)|Safari, WebKit
James H. Wilkinson:– numerical analysis
Gregory Chaitin:
Amir Pnueli:– temporal logic
Cornelis H. A. Koster|Kees Koster:– ALGOL 68
Donald Knuth:– ''The Art of Computer Programming'', MIX/MMIX, TeX, literate programming
Sargur Srihari:– Pattern Recognition, Machine learning, Computational criminology, CEDAR-FOX
Silvio Micali:– cryptography
Susan L. Graham:– compilers, programming environments
Guy L. Steele, Jr.:– Scheme (programming language)|Scheme, Common Lisp
Adi Shamir:– RSA (algorithm)|RSA, cryptanalysis
Peter Eades:- graph drawing
William Wulf:– compilers
Robin Milner:– ML (programming language)
Peter Chen:– entity-relationship model, data modeling, conceptual model
John von Neumann:(1903–1957) – early computers, Von Neumann architecture|von Neumann machine, set theory, functional analysis, mathematics pioneer, linear programming, quantum mechanics.
John Henry Holland:– genetic algorithms
Charles Stark Draper:(angular acceleration|1901–Velocity|1987) – designer: Apollo Guidance Computer, "Father of inertial navigation", MIT Professor.
Frieder Nake:– pioneered computer arts
Yukihiro Matsumoto:– Ruby (programming language)
Gregor Kiczales:– CLOS, reflection (computer science)|reflection, aspect-oriented programming
Christopher Riche Evans:
Paul Vitanyi:- Kolmogorov complexity. Information distance. Normalized compression distance. Normalized Google distance
David Pearson, Computer Scientist|David Pearson:– CADES, computer graphics
Michael Stonebraker:– relational database practice and theory
Cleve Moler:– numerical analysis, MATLAB
John Yen:
Kevin Warwick:– artificial intelligence
Emil Post:– mathematics
Edward D. Lazowska:
Nello Cristianini:– Machine learning, pattern analysis, artificial intelligence
Raj Reddy:– AI
Bernard Galler:– MAD (programming language)
Sebastian Thrun:– AI researcher and inventor of autonomous driving
Tim Berners-Lee:– World Wide Web
Yann LeCun:
J.C.R. Licklider:
Marvin Minsky:– artificial intelligence, perceptrons, Society of Mind
Tom DeMarco:
Neil J. Gunther:– computer performance analysis, capacity planning
Edward Feigenbaum:– intelligence
Robert E. Kahn:– TCP/IP
Alan Kay:– Dynabook, Smalltalk, overlapping window (computing)|windows
Joseph F Traub:– computational complexity of scientific problems
Bruce Schneier:– cryptography, security
MLAB:, Hashing
David Wheeler :- EDSAC, subroutines
Bjarne Stroustrup:– C++
Tracy Camp:- wireless computing
Stephen R. Bourne:– Bourne shell, portable ALGOL 68C compiler
Andrew McCallum:
Peter Naur:– Backus-Naur form|BNF, ALGOL 60
Robert Sproull:
Azriel Rosenfeld:
Carl Sassenrath:– operating systems, programming languages, Amiga, REBOL
Bryan Cantrill:- inventor of DTrace
Yale Patt:– Instruction-level parallelism, speculative architectures
David Karger:
Jiawei Han:– Data mining
Shang-Hua Teng:– analysis of algorithms
Charles E. Leiserson:– cache-oblivious algorithms, provably good Cilk#Work-stealing|work-stealing, coauthor of Introduction to Algorithms
Steven Rudich:– complexity theory, cryptography
Ken Forbus:
Vinod Dham:– P5 (microarchitecture)|P5 Pentium (brand)|Pentium processor
Rohini Kesavan Srihari:– Information Retrieval, Text Analytics, Multilingual Text Mining
Ronald Stamper:
George Novacky:– Assistant Department Chair and Senior Lecturer in Computer Science, Assistant Dean of CAS for Undergraduate Studies at University of Pittsburgh
Nancy Lynch:
John Lions:– Lions' Commentary on UNIX 6th Edition, with Source Code|Lions Book
Nadia Magnenat Thalmann:- Computer Graphics, virtual actor
Jean Ichbiah:– Ada (programming language)|Ada
Peter Bernus:
Hal Abelson:– intersection of computing and teaching
Peter J. Weinberger:– programming language design, the 'w' in AWK
Steve Lawrence :
Andrew Chi-Chih Yao:
Srinidhi Varadarajan:– System X (computing)|System X: VirginiaTech's Power Mac G5 Supercluster
Les Hatton:– software failure and vulnerabilities
Moshe Vardi:—Professor of Computer Science at Rice University
Fred B. Schneider:– concurrent and distributed computing
Andrew Herbert:
Roland Carl Backhouse:– mathematics of program construction
Jeff Rulifson:
Jie Wu:– computer networks
Johan Håstad:– computational complexity theory
Alan Mycroft:- programming languages
Gerard Salton:– information retrieval
Larry Tesler:– human-computer interaction, graphical user interface, Apple Macintosh
Martin Charles Golumbic:– algorithmic graph theory
David H. D. Warren:– artificial intelligence|AI, logic programming, Prolog, the 'W' in Warren Abstract Machine|WAM
Wil van der Aalst:– business process management, process mining, Petri nets
Whitfield Diffie:(1944-Linear response function|χ) – Public key cryptography, Diffie–Hellman key exchange,
Kristen Nygaard:– Simula
Jeffrey Scott Vitter:- external memory algorithms, compressed data structures, data compression, databases
Vijay Vazirani:
Joseph Goguen:
Norbert Wiener:- Cybernetics
Douglas Lenat:– artificial intelligence, Cyc
Bernhard Thalheim:– Conceptual modelling foundation
Jonathan Bowen:– Z notation, formal methods
Brian Kernighan:(born 1942) – Unix, the 'k' in AWK
Hugo de Garis:
Marek Karpinski:– NP optimization problems
Michael Butler :– Event-B
Edward Yourdon:– Structured Systems Analysis and Design Method
David Blei:
Jaime Teevan:
Leonard Adleman:– RSA (algorithm)|RSA, DNA computing
Mario Szegedy:– Computational complexity theory|complexity theory, quantum computing
Alan Turing:(1912–1954) – British computing pioneer, Turing Machine, algorithms, cryptology, computer architecture.
Andrey Nikolaevich Kolmogorov:– algorithmic complexity theory
Ping Fu:
Richard Stallman:(born 1953) – GNU Project
Paul Justin Compton:– Ripple Down Rules
Larry Page:- co-founder of Google
Larry Stockmeyer:– computational complexity, distributed computing
Robert L. Glass:
Nigel Shadbolt:
Franco Preparata:- computer engineering, computational geometry, parallel algorithms, computational biology
Jan Dietz:(1945 -Decay constant|ι) – information systems theory and "Design & Engineering Methodology for Organizations"
David Eppstein:
Carl Kesselman:– grid computing
Alfred Aho:– compilers book, the 'a' in AWK
Mary Allen Wilkes:– LINC developer, assembler-linker designer
Aaron Sloman:- artificial intelligence and cognitive science
Jerre Noe:
Zvi Galil:
Scott Aaronson:- quantum computing and Computational complexity theory|complexity theory
Thomas Sterling :– creator of Beowulf (computing)|Beowulf clusters
Glen Culler:- Interactive computing, computer graphics, high performance computing
Rasmus Lerdorf:– PHP
Victor Bahl:
Manindra Agrawal:– polynomial-time primality testing
Andrew S. Tanenbaum:– operating systems, MINIX
Ken Kennedy :– compiling for parallel and vector machines
Jack E. Bresenham:– early computer-graphics contributions, including Bresenham's algorithm
Edwin Catmull:– computer graphics
Charles P. Thacker:– Xerox Alto, Microsoft Research
J Strother Moore:– string searching, ACL2 theorem prover
Chris McKinstry:– artificial intelligence, Mindpixel
Cliff Jones :– Vienna Development Method (VDM)
Robert Kowalski:– logic programming
Bertrand Meyer:– Eiffel (programming language)
Thomas E. Kurtz:(born 1928) – BASIC programming language; Dartmouth College computer professor
Mihai Nadin:– anticipation research
Igor Hawryszkiewycz:, (b. 1948),  American computer scientist and organizational theorist
Jeff Bonwick:- inventor of slab allocation and ZFS
Adam Riese:
Manuel Blum:– cryptography
Ivan Sutherland:– graphics
Adam Dunkels:– Protothreads
Guido van Rossum:– Python (programming language)
Marco Dorigo:– ant colony optimization
Bernard de Neumann:– massively parallel autonomous cellular processor, software engineering research
Scott Shenker:– networking
Brendan Eich:– JavaScript, Mozilla
Stephen Cook:– NP-completeness
John Koza:– genetic programming
Dorothy E. Denning:– computer security
Tommy Flowers:– Colossus computer
Richard DeMillo:– computer security, software engineering, educational technology
Gene Golub:– Matrix (mathematics)|Matrix computation
Larry Wall:– Perl programming language
Avinash Kak:– digital image processing
Juris Hartmanis:– computational complexity theory
Radia Perlman:– spanning tree protocol
Dan Ingalls:– Smalltalk, BitBlt, Lively Kernel
James Cooley:– Fast Fourier transform (FFT)
Richard J. Lipton:– computational complexity theory
Willem van der Poel:– computer graphics, robotics, geographic information systems, imaging, multimedia, virtual environments, games
Steven M. Bellovin:– network security
Samir Das:– Wireless Networks, Mobile Computing, Vehicular ad hoc network, Sensor Networks, Mesh networking, Wireless ad hoc network
Martin Fowler:
Marshall Kirk McKusick:– BSD, Berkeley Fast File System
Geoffrey Hinton:
Gerrit Blaauw:– one of the principal designers of the IBM System 360 line of computersJASPER PANOT
Winston W. Royce:– Waterfall model
Erik Demaine:– computational origami
Max Newman:– Colossus, MADM
Leslie Valiant:– computational complexity theory, computational learning theory
Leonid Levin:– computational complexity theory
Bruce Arden:– programming language compilers (GAT, Michigan Algorithm Decoder|MAD), virtual memory architecture, Michigan Terminal System|MTS
Peter T. Kirstein:- Internet
Lee Giles:- CiteSeer
Richard E. Stearns:– computational complexity theory
James Hendler:– Semantic Web
Donald Firesmith:
Martin Campbell-Kelly:– history of computing
Ravi Sethi:– compilers, 2nd Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools#Second edition|Dragon Book
Peter J. Denning:– identified the use of an operating system's working set and balance set, President of Association for Computing Machinery|ACM
Herman Hollerith:(1860–1929) – invented recording of data on a machine readable medium, using punched cards
John Tukey:– founder of FFT algorithm, Box plot, Exploratory Data Analysis and Coining the term 'bit'
Edgar F. Codd:(1923&ndash;2003) – formulated the database relational model
Arif Zaman:– Pseudo-random number generator
Alan Dix:– literally wrote the book on human–computer interaction
Jonathan Schaeffer:
Robert Cecil Martin|Robert C. Martin :– Software craftsmanship
Scott Fahlman:
Daniel Sleator:– splay tree, amortized analysis
T. William Olle:– Ferranti Mercury
Jeff Dean :– Big Table, MapReduce, Spanner (database)|Spanner of Google
Rudy Rucker:– mathematician, writer, educator
David Korn :– Korn shell
Stephen Wolfram:– Mathematica
Claude Sammut:– artificial intelligence|artificial-intelligence researcher
David A. Wagner|David Wagner:– security, cryptography
Richard P. Gabriel|Richard Gabriel:
James Gosling:– NeWS, Java (programming language)|Java
John P. Moon:- inventor, Apple Inc.
David P. Anderson:- volunteer computing
Janet L. Kolodner:– case-based reasoning
Michael Garey:– NP-completeness
Ivar Jacobson:– Unified Modeling Language, Object Management Group
John Backus:– FORTRAN, Backus–Naur form, first complete compiler
Judea Pearl:– artificial intelligence, search algorithms
Andrew Koenig :– C++
Edsger Dijkstra:– algorithms, Goto considered harmful, semaphore (programming)
Michael I. Jordan:
Robert S. Boyer:– string searching, ACL2 theorem prover
Mark Weiser:– ubiquitous computing
Emmy Noether:
John Krogstie:– SEQUAL framework
C. J. van Rijsbergen:
Wilhelm Schickard:– one of first calculating machines
Alain Colmerauer:- Prolog
Sheila Greibach:– Greibach normal form, Abstract family of languages|AFL theory
Stephen Muggleton:- Inductive Logic Programming
John Hughes :– structuring computations with Arrow (computer science)|arrows; QuickCheck randomized program testing framework; Haskell (programming language)|Haskell programming language design.
Hans Zantema:– termination analysis
Ahmed Albarwary:– CEO of VirusOut Lab.
Shlomo Zilberstein:– artificial intelligence, anytime algorithms, automated planning and scheduling|automated planning, and decentralized partially observable Markov decision process|POMDPs
John George Kemeny:– BASIC
Luca Cardelli:– objects
Walter F. Tichy:– RCS
Ramesh Jain:
Carroll Morgan :
Andrew Appel:– compilers text books
Nils Nilsson :– artificial intelligence
Avie Tevanian:– Mach kernel team, NeXT, Mac OS X
Éva Tardos:
John L. Hennessy:– computer architecture
Ralph Griswold:– SNOBOL
Jon Crowcroft:- Networking
Stephen Cole Kleene:– Kleene closure, recursion theory
Jon Postel:– Internet
Bill Gropp:– Message Passing Interface, Portable, Extensible Toolkit for Scientific Computation|PETSc
Philip-Emeagwali:– supercomputing
Max Levchin:– Gausebeck-Levchin test and PayPal
C. A. R. Hoare:– Logic, rigor, Communicating sequential processes (CSP)
Oren Etzioni:- MetaCrawler, Netbot
Peter Nordin:– artificial intelligence, genetic programming, evolutionary robotics
Edward H. Shortliffe:– MYCIN (Medical diagnostic expert system)
Sanjeev Arora:– PCP theorem
Gerald Jay Sussman:– Scheme (programming language)|Scheme
Andrew Ng:– artificial intelligence, machine learning,
Roberto Tamassia:- computational geometry, computer security
Shafi Goldwasser:– cryptography, computational complexity theory
Olaf Storaasli :– finite element machine, linear algebra, high performance computing
Narendra Karmarkar:– Karmarkar's algorithm
Robert Floyd:– NP-completeness
Claude Shannon:– information theory
Rapelang Rabana:
François Vernadat:– enterprise modeling
James Martin :– information engineering
Godfried Toussaint:– computational geometry – computational music therory
Lotfi Zadeh:– fuzzy logic
Philip Don Estridge|Don Estridge:(1937–1985) – led development of original IBM Personal Computer (PC); known as "father of the IBM PC"
Andries van Dam:– computer graphics, hypertext
John Presper Eckert:– ENIAC
Hector Garcia-Molina:
Bill Gates:- co-founder of Microsoft
Edward Felten:– computer security
Colette Rolland:– REMORA methodology, meta modelling
Shmuel Winograd:– Coppersmith–Winograd algorithm
Wendy Hall:
Mary Jane Irwin:
Fernando J. Corbató:– Compatible Time-Sharing System (CTSS), Multics
Walter Savitch:– discovery of complexity class NL (complexity)|NL, Savitch's theorem, natural language processing, mathematical linguistics
Charles Bachman:- American computer scientist, known for Integrated Data Store
Rod Brooks:
Jean Bartik:(1924–2011) – one of the first Computer programming#History|computer programmers, on ENIAC (1946), one of first Vacuum tube Vacuum tube#Use in electronic computers|computers, back when "programming" involved using cables, dials, and switches to physically rewire the machine; worked with John Mauchly toward BINAC (1949), EDVAC (1949), UNIVAC (1951) to develop early "stored program" computers
Kevin Leyton-Brown:– artificial intelligence
Tom Gruber:
Zoubin Ghahramani:
Munindar P. Singh:– multiagent systems, software engineering, artificial intelligence, social networks
James C. Beatty:(1934-1978) – compiler optimization,<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/22052.wss | author = Press release | title=IBM Fellow John Cocke Passed Away on July 16th{{spaced ndash}} The 'Father' of RISC Architecture|publisher = IBM |date= June 17, 2002 |accessdate= November 7, 2012}}</ref> super-computing<ref>{{cite web| author = Staff | url=http://www.cs.clemson.edu/~mark/acs_people.html |title=People Involved in ACS – Mark Smotherman | publisher = Clemson University |date= April 17, 2011 |accessdate= November 7, 2012}}</ref>
Dana Scott:– domain theory
Seymour Ginsburg:– formal languages, automata theory, abstract family of languages|AFL theory, database theory
William Kahan:– numerical analysis
Emmanuel Nyahuma:
Jan Weglarz:
David S. Johnson:
Kenneth E. Iverson:– APL (programming language)|APL, J (programming language)|J
Robert M. Graham:– programming language compilers (GAT, Michigan Algorithm Decoder|MAD), virtual memory architecture, Multics
Herbert W. Franke:
Eldon C. Hall:– Apollo Guidance Computer
William H. Press:– numerical algorithms
Richard Karp:– NP-completeness
Christopher Strachey:– denotational semantics
Rajeev Motwani:- Randomized algorithm
Peter G. Gyarmati:– adaptivity in operating systems and networking
Ingemar Cox:- digital watermarking
Kurt Gödel:– computability – not a computer scientist per se, but his work was invaluable in the field
Murray Turoff:– computer-mediated communication
Peter Ružička:- Slovak computer scientist and mathematician
Lambert Meertens:– ALGOL 68, ABC (programming language)
John C. Reynolds:
Ben Shneiderman:– human-computer interaction, information visualization
W. Bruce Croft:
James Rumbaugh:– Unified Modeling Language, Object Management Group
Manny M Lehman:
John Ousterhout:– Tcl programming Language
Ole-Johan Dahl:– Simula
Alexander Dewdney:
David Waltz:
Samson Abramsky:– game semantics
Margaret Hamilton :- ultra-reliable software design
Joseph Sifakis:– model checking
Mahadev Satyanarayanan:– file systems, distributed systems, mobile computing, pervasive computing
Dennis Ritchie:– C (programming language), Unix|UNIX
Jonathan James:
Raphael Finkel:
Manfred K. Warmuth:– computational learning theory
Adriaan van Wijngaarden:– Dutch pioneer; ARRA, ALGOL
Gary William Flake:
David P. Reed:
Michael Dertouzos:– Director of Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Laboratory for Computer Science (LCS) from 1974 to 2001
James G. Nell:– Generalised Enterprise Reference Architecture and Methodology|GERAM
Edwin E. Tozer:-  business information systems
Bert Bos:– Cascading Style Sheets
Douglas McIlroy:– pipes
V. K. Govindan:
Gábor Tardos:
Wim Ebbinkhuijsen:– COBOL
Barbara Liskov:– programming languages
Paul Vixie:- DNS, BIND, PAIX, Internet Software Consortium, MAPS (software)|MAPS, DNSBL
Jim Gray :– database
Yuri Matiyasevich:– solving Hilbert's tenth problem
Lawrence Paulson:– ML (programming language)|ML
Robert Tarjan:– splay tree
Joshua Lederberg:
Arne Sølvberg:– information modelling
Neil Wiseman:- Computer Graphics
Edmund M. Clarke:– model checking
Makoto Nagao:– machine translation, natural language processing, digital library
Leslie Lamport:– algorithms for distributed computing, LaTeX
E. Allen Emerson:– model checking
Daniel Thalmann:- Computer Graphics, virtual actor
Simon Peyton Jones:– functional programming
Martin Hellman:– encryption
Joseph Halpern:
Philipp Matthäus Hahn:– mechanical calculator
Adele Goldberg :– Smalltalk
Harry Bouwman:(b. 1953), Dutch Information systems researcher, and Professor at the Åbo Akademi University
Monica S. Lam:
Stephen C. Johnson:
Donald Norman:– user interfaces, usability
He Jifeng:– Correctness (computer science)|provably correct systems
Roger Needham:
Jacques Cohen:– computer science professor
Mihai Pătraşcu:- data structures
David E. Shaw:– computational finance, computational biochemistry, parallel architectures
David A. Bader:
Sophie Wilson:– ARM architecture
Paul Mockapetris:– Domain Name System (DNS)
Charles Geschke:
Poul-Henning Kamp:- inventor of GBDE, FreeBSD Jails, Varnish cache
Luis von Ahn:– human-based computation
Alan Perlis:– ''Programming Pearls''
Peter J. Landin:
Douglas T. Ross:– Structured Analysis and Design Technique
David C. Evans:– computer graphics
Paul Dourish:– human computer interaction
Gordon Cormack:– co-inventor of dynamic Markov compression
Michael L. Scott:– programming languages, algorithms, distributed computing
Dan Klein:– Natural language processing, Machine translation
Seinosuke Toda:– computation complexity, recipient of 1998 Gödel Prize
Brian Randell:– dependability
Anil K. Jain :
Madhu Sudan:– computational complexity theory, coding theory
 Elizabeth A :Elizabeth A (Buschlen) Unger - databases, data security, learning management systemsdatabases, data security,
Joseph Weizenbaum:– artificial intelligence, ELIZA
Charles Babbage:(1791–1871) – invented first mechanical computer, father of computer
Tom M. Mitchell:
Hans Moravec:– robotics
Grace Hopper:(1906–1992) – developed early compilers: FLOW-Matic, COBOL; worked on UNIVAC; gave speeches on computer history, where when gave out Grace Murray Hopper#Retirement|nano-seconds
Cliff Shaw:– systems programmer, artificial intelligence
Umesh Vazirani:
Allen Newell:– artificial intelligence, ''Computer Structures''
Daniel P. Friedman:
Vint Cerf|Vinton Cerf:– Internet, TCP/IP
Danny Hillis:– Connection Machine
John Cocke:– RISC
Paul Hudak:(1952–2015) – Haskell (programming language)|Haskell programming language design
John Mashey:
Börje Langefors:
Ramanathan V. Guha:– Resource Description Framework|RDF, Netscape, RSS (file format)|RSS, Epinions
Leonard Kleinrock:– ARPANET, queueing theory, packet switching, hierarchical routing
Fred Brooks:– System 360, OS/360, ''The Mythical Man-Month'', ''No Silver Bullet''
John Vincent Atanasoff:– computer pioneer
Ron Rivest:– RSA (algorithm)|RSA, MD5, RC4
George Sadowsky:
Eric Horvitz:– artificial intelligence
David A. Huffman:(1925–1999) – Huffman coding, used in data compression.
Dines Bjørner:– Vienna Development Method (VDM), RAISE
Yoav Freund:
Sankar Pal:
Alston Householder:
Michael Kölling:– BlueJ
Ken Thompson :– Unix
Eugene Luks:
Aravind K. Joshi:
Bert Sutherland:– graphics, Internet
Mark Overmars:– game programming
Patrick Cousot:– abstract interpretation
James Z. Wang:
Serge Abiteboul:– database theory
John Mauchly:(1907–1980) – designed ENIAC, first general-purpose electronic digital computer, as well as EDVAC, BINAC and UNIVAC I, the first commercial computer; worked with Jean Bartik on ENIAC and Grace Murray Hopper on UNIVAC
Paul Graham :– Viaweb, On Lisp, Arc (programming language)|Arc
Peter Wegner:– object-oriented programming, interaction (computer science)
Gio Wiederhold:– database management systems
